---
title: split Linux command
description: Learn how to use the split command in Linux to divide files into smaller parts efficiently.
---

The split command in Linux is used to split a large file into smaller parts for easier handling or transferring. It allows you to specify the number of lines or size of each part, making it a versatile tool for managing large amounts of data. By default, split will use a predefined prefix for the smaller files it creates, but you can also specify a custom prefix. Additionally, split offers options for adjusting the number of lines or bytes in each part, allowing for greater control over the splitting process.
## split Syntax:
```bash
split [OPTION] [INPUT [PREFIX]]
```
## Options:
| Option     | Description                           |
|------------|---------------------------------------|
| -b, --bytes=SIZE   | put SIZE bytes per output file                  |
| -C, --line-bytes=SIZE  | put at most SIZE bytes of lines per output file             |
| -l, --lines=NUMBER    | put NUMBER lines/records per output file           |
| -n, --number=CHUNKS    | generate CHUNKS output files; see explanation below     |
|      --additional-suffix=SUFFIX        | append an additional SUFFIX to file names (default: 'aa')    |
| -a, --suffix-length=N    | use suffixes of length N (default 2)           |
| -d, --numeric-suffixes[=FROM] | use numeric suffixes instead of alphabetic; from is number (default 0)  |
| -x, --hex-suffixes       | use hexadecimal suffixes       |
| -e, --elide-empty-files  | do not generate empty output files with '-n'      |
| -u, --unbuffered       | immediately copy input to output with '-n r/size' fields  |
| -t, --separator=SUFFIX      | use SUFFIX instead of Newline as the record separator  |
|      --verbose               | print a diagnostic just before each output file is opened       |
|      --help        | display this help and exit        |
|      --version         | output version information and exit     |

## Parameters:
| Parameter | Description                                   |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------|
| INPUT     | The file to split                             |
| PREFIX    | The prefix for the output file names          |

:::caution
Ensure that you understand the size or number of chunks you want to create as splitting large files might have unintended consequences.
:::
## split bash Examples:
### Split a File into Multiple Pieces
```bash
split -b 1M file.txt
```
Splits the file.txt into multiple pieces, each with a size of 1MB.

### Split a File with Custom Prefix
```bash
split -d -b 500K file.txt custom_prefix
```
Splits the file.txt into multiple pieces with a size of 500KB each, using the prefix "custom_prefix".

### Split a File into Equal Parts
```bash
split -n 3 file.txt
```
Divides the file.txt into three equal parts.

### Split a File with Specific Number of Lines
```bash
split -l 100 file.txt
```
Splits the file.txt into segments, each containing 100 lines.

### Split a File and Specify Suffix Length
```bash
split -a 3 -l 200 file.txt
```
Splits the file.txt into parts, each containing 200 lines, with a suffix length of 3 characters.

### Split a File and Set Starting Number
```bash
split -l 50 --additional-suffix=".part" -d -a 3 file.txt split_file
```
Splits the file.txt into parts with 50 lines each, starting with a number sequence and specifying an additional suffix ".part".
:::tip
When using the split command in Linux, make sure to familiarize yourself with the various options available to tailor the splitting process according to your specific requirements.
:::

### How do I use split in Linux?
To use the split command in Linux, execute the following command:
```bash
split --bytes=10M largefile.txt splitfile
```

### What is the purpose of the split command in Linux?
The split command in Linux is used to split a file into smaller parts.

### How can I split a file into a specific number of pieces using split in Linux?
You can split a file into a specific number of pieces by specifying the number of lines per output file with the split command, like this:
```bash
split -l 100 file.txt output
```

### Can I add a custom prefix to the output files when splitting in Linux?
Yes, you can add a custom prefix to the output files by using the `-d` flag followed by the desired prefix in the split command, for example:
```bash
split -d -l 100 file.txt output_prefix
```

### How can I change the default suffixes generated by split in Linux?
You can change the default suffixes generated by split by using the `--suffix-length` option followed by the desired length for the suffix in the command, like this:
```bash
split --suffix-length=3 file.txt output
```

### Is it possible to split a file based on specific bytes rather than lines in Linux?
Yes, you can split a file based on a specific number of bytes using the `--bytes` option with the split command in Linux, for example:
```bash
split --bytes=100M largefile.bin splitfile
```

### How do I display the help manual for the split command in Linux?
To access the help manual for the split command in Linux, you can use the `--help` option, like this:
```bash
split --help
```

### Can I split a file and specify the maximum number of lines in each output file using split in Linux?
Yes, you can specify the maximum number of lines in each output file by using the `-l` option followed by the maximum number of lines in the split command, for example:
```bash
split -l 200 file.txt output
```

## Applications of the split command

- Splitting large files into smaller parts for easier transfer or storage
- Managing file size limitations on certain systems or platforms
- Creating chunks of data for parallel processing
- Distributing large datasets for analysis or sharing
- Archiving and compressing files in chunks for backup or transfer
- Managing and organizing large volumes of files efficiently