---
title: head MacOS command
description: Learn how to use the MacOS head command to display the first part of a file in the terminal. Easily view the beginning of large files without opening them.
---

The MacOS head command displays the first part of a file in the terminal. It is useful for quickly previewing the content of a file without opening it fully. By default, head displays the first 10 lines of a file, but you can specify a different number of lines to show. This command is handy for analyzing log files, checking configurations, and previewing the structure of a file.

## head Syntax:
```bash
head [option] [file]
```

## head Options:

| Option | Description              |
|--------|--------------------------|
| -n     | Specify the number of lines to display. Default is 10 lines.    |
| -c     | Specify the number of bytes to display.                        |
| -q     | Never print headers giving file names.                         |
| -v     | Always print headers giving file names.                        |

:::caution
Exercise caution when using the `head` command as it reads the beginning of files, which can potentially include sensitive information.
:::

## Parameters:
| Parameter | Description              |
|-----------|--------------------------|
| file      | The file to display the beginning content of.                |
## head Command Usage Examples:
### Display the First 10 Lines of a File
```bash
head file.txt
```
This command will display the first 10 lines of the file.txt file.

### Display a Specific Number of Lines from the Beginning of a File
```bash
head -n 5 file.txt
```
This will display the first 5 lines of the file.txt file.

### Display Multiple Files with the First 10 Lines Each
```bash
head file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
```
Displays the first 10 lines of file1.txt, file2.txt, and file3.txt.

### Display Lines from a File without the Final Newline Character
```bash
head -c -1 file.txt
```
Display the contents of file.txt without the final newline character.

### Display the First 20 Lines of a Command Output
```bash
ls -l | head -n 20
```
Displays the first 20 lines of the output generated by the "ls -l" command.
:::tip
When using the head command in MacOS, remember that it is primarily used to display the beginning of a file. By default, it will display the first 10 lines of a file. You can also specify the number of lines you want to display by using the "-n" option followed by the number of lines. Additionally, the head command can be combined with other commands or used in pipelines to manipulate text output efficiently.
:::

### How do I use head in MacOS?
To use the head command in bash, execute the following command:
```bash
head file.txt
```

### How can I display a specific number of lines with head in MacOS?
To display a specific number of lines (e.g., 5 lines) of a file using head in MacOS, use the "-n" option followed by the number of lines:
```bash
head -n 5 file.txt
```

### How can I show the first part of multiple files with head in MacOS?
To display the beginning of multiple files simultaneously using the head command in MacOS, you can specify the file names as arguments:
```bash
head file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
```

### How can I display the contents of a file except for the first few lines with head in MacOS?
To display the contents of a file except for the first few lines, you can use the combination of head and tail commands. For instance, to skip the first 5 lines and display the rest of the file:
```bash
tail -n +6 file.txt
```

### How can I show the first part of a file along with line numbers in MacOS using head?
To display the first part of a file with line numbers shown, you can pipe the output of head to the nl command. For example, to view the first 10 lines of a file with line numbers:
```bash
head file.txt | nl
```

### How can I display the last part of a file in reverse order using head in MacOS?
To display the last part of a file in reverse order, you can combine the head and tac commands in MacOS. For example, to show the last 5 lines of a file in reverse:
```bash
head -n 5 file.txt | tac
```

### How can I display the first part of a file with specific delimiter characters using head in MacOS?
To display the beginning of a file with specific delimiter characters, you can use the "-c" option to specify the number of bytes to print in MacOS. For instance, to show the first 100 bytes of a file:
```bash
head -c 100 file.txt
```
## Applications of the head command

1. Display the first few lines of a file
2. Extract the header of a CSV or TSV file
3. View the beginning of a large log file
4. Check the contents of a script or configuration file without opening it entirely
5. Print specific lines from the beginning of a text file